docs: add a little guide to install Vivaldi into Apx (#97)
Vanilla-OS/handbook: _posts/2023-10-26-install-vivaldi.md

---
title: Installing Vivaldi
description: Learn how to Install and set up Vivaldi in Vanilla OS. 
date: 2023-10-26
layout: article
authors: 
    - Phosphorus-M
    - amsyarzero
published: true
---

## Introduction

[**Vivaldi**](https://vivaldi.com) is a freeware, cross-platform web browser based on Chromium, the open-source project behind Google Chrome. Vivaldi is intended to be a customizable, functional, and practical browser for the web.

## Installing Vivaldi

First, download the latest version of Vivaldi from [**here**](https://vivaldi.com/download/).

Execute the following command to access to the directory where the downloaded package is located:

```bash
cd ~/Downloads
```

Then, install the downloaded package into your subsystem using the following command:

```bash
apx install --sideload ./vivaldi-stable_*_amd64.deb
```

After the installation is complete, you must install the proprietary codecs needed for video and audio to play:

```bash
apx enter
sudo apt update && sudo apt install chromium-codecs-ffmpeg-extra
```

> This step is essential to ensure that your audio functions properly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the following command to install the required components for functioning audio:
```

---
title: Installing Vivaldi
description: Learn how to Install and set up Vivaldi in Vanilla OS. 
date: 2023-10-26
layout: article
authors: 
    - Phosphorus-M
    - amsyarzero
published: true
---

## Introduction

[**Vivaldi**](https://vivaldi.com) is a freeware, cross-platform web browser based on Chromium, the open-source project behind Google Chrome. Vivaldi is intended to be a customizable, functional, and practical browser for the web.

## Installing Vivaldi

> You can install Vivaldi using the following steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

First, download the latest version of Vivaldi from [**here**](https://vivaldi.com/download/).

Execute the following command to access to the directory where the downloaded package is located:

```bash
cd ~/Downloads
```

Then, install the downloaded package into your subsystem using the following command:

```bash
apx install --sideload ./vivaldi-stable_*_amd64.deb
```

After the installation is complete, you must install the proprietary codecs needed for video and audio to play:

```bash
apx enter
sudo apt update && sudo apt install chromium-codecs-ffmpeg-extra
```

> ## Installing Pipewire for Vivaldi

Reviewer: This whole section is still part of the process of installing Vivaldi, so it should either be a subsection, or this header shouldn't be here at all.

> ## Installing Pipewire for Vivaldi

Author: ```suggestion
```

> This step is necessary to get functioning audio.

Reviewer: Should be rephrased to point to the action.

Author: Is it okay if we change it to this?

```suggestion
This step is essential to ensure that your audio functions properly.
```

---
title: Installing Vivaldi
description: Learn how to Install and set up Vivaldi in Vanilla OS. 
date: 2023-10-26
layout: article
authors: 
    - Phosphorus-M
    - amsyarzero
published: true
---

## Introduction

> [Vivaldi](https://vivaldi.com/) is a freeware, cross-platform web browser developed by Vivaldi Technologies, a company founded by Opera Software co-founder and former CEO Jon Stephenson von Tetzchner and Tatsuki Tomita. Vivaldi is based on Chromium, the open-source project behind Google Chrome. Vivaldi is intended to be a customizable, functional, and practical browser for the web.
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Vivaldi](https://vivaldi.com) is a freeware, cross-platform web browser based on Chromium, the open-source project behind Google Chrome. Vivaldi is intended to be a customizable, functional, and practical browser for the web.

```

I think we can keep the description concise here.

Reviewer: Should use ** to make the link bold.

## Installing Vivaldi

You can install Vivaldi using the following steps:

> First, download the latest version of Vivaldi from [here](https://vivaldi.com/download/).

Reviewer: Should use ** to make the link bold.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
First, download the latest version of Vivaldi from [**here**](https://vivaldi.com/download/).
```

> Use `cd` to navigate to the directory where the downloaded package is located.

Reviewer: Should just give the exact command, aka `cd ~/Downloads`

> Then, install the downloaded package into your subsystem (In this case apt) using the following command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then, install the downloaded package into your subsystem using the following command:
```

```bash
apx install --sideload ./vivaldi-stable_*_amd64.deb
```

> After the installation is complete but you must install the proprietary codecs needed for video and audio to play:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After the installation is complete, you must install the proprietary codecs needed for video and audio to play:
```

```bash
apx enter

> sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install chromium-codecs-ffmpeg-extra

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sudo apt update && sudo apt install chromium-codecs-ffmpeg-extra
```

```

> ## Installing Pipewire for Vivaldi (and basically any other subsystem program)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Installing Pipewire for Vivaldi
```

> This step is also important so your desktop knows how to route the audio properly to your audio devices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This step is necessary to get functioning audio.
```

```bash
sudo apt install pipewire-audio-client-libraries pipewire-pulse wireplumber
exit
```

> Don't forget export Vivaldi:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now, you can create a desktop entry for Vivaldi with:
```

Reviewer: Use "You can now" instead of "Now, you can"

Reviewer 2: Thanks, updated the suggestion.

```bash
apx export vivaldi-stable
```

Now Vivaldi should be functioning perfectly!

## Setup Vivaldi as your default browser

> To set Vivaldi as your default browser, open the terminal and run the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To set Vivaldi as your default browser, open the terminal and run the following commands:
```

```bash
cd ~/.local/share/applications
xdg-settings set default-web-browser apx_managed-vivaldi-stable.desktop
```

This allows you to open links from other applications outside of the subsystem in Vivaldi.

Inside of a subsystem, you can also use the following command:

```bash
xdg-settings set default-web-browser vivaldi-stable
```

This allows you to open links from other applications inside of the subsystem in Vivaldi.

> ## Credits

Reviewer: This whole section isn't necessary, it's nice of you to do but this isn't common practice for us.

> ## Credits
> 
> This guide was recompilation of messages in discord and [the installation guide into the Arch subsystem](https://gist.github.com/amsyarzero/4b52f44d7b74d3e61b42028e6c8aeaa7) of [amsyarzero](https://github.com/amsyarzero).
> 
> Vanilla OS community (hyperlink leads to their Discord) for patiently answering my noob questions, especially:
> 
> - Feng Lengshun
> - Dharun Krishna
> - Monster
> - xrandr
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
